This report will discuss the details of Project 1 in terms of how the database is organized and how the web application is organized.  Each of those sections will discuss the details of how the solution is constructed, how interactions take place, and any aspects of the solution that are noteworthy.
Application
Java Servlets are being used for the rendering of the HTML that is presented to the user.  The work of rendering that page is handled via the HTMLUtils.java and the respective “*Servlet.java” files.  HTMLUtils contains methods for rendering some generic HTML aspects such as the header and footer of the page.  The various Servlet pages use those methods in conjunction with processing specific for the page they are attempting to render.  Decisions are made based on the query strings that are passed to the particular Servlet that is running.  This allows a single servlet to house logic for what content to display and if a user is logged in or not.  
For example, the Actor Servlet will display a search box and the “TOP 25” actors.  In this case “TOP 25” refers to using the SQL command “TOP 25” in a select statement.  After an actor has been searched for or selected, the page shifts to displaying details about that Actor.  It also displays a few records from other sub-topics about that Actor, such as quotes.  There is a link provided to take the user to a page showing all of the records about that particular sub-topic.   
The Servlet pages are constructed on the base of a class of methods and a class representing the database entities.  Method classes handle all basic create, read, and update operations for a particular database entity.  Additionally, any queries beyond basic functionality are housed in a class that most closely relates to the functionality being provided.  Within these methods, insert functionality uses parameterized SQL, while the read and update functionality uses dynamic SQL.  Connectivity to the database is provided via the DBUtils class, which was provided as an example to the team for this project.  
Classes representing database entities are constructed in order to provide an easier way to hold and store information in the application.  In these classes are methods responsible for retrieving and storing information in the class.  This allows the method class and Servlets to work with these classes while not having an open database connection continually open.  Additionally, there are methods on the page for formatting the data into strings for use in HTML output for display and HTML output for editing the data.  
